# Human-Development-Index
Data Wrangling and Exploration of the HDI

## Definitions	
* **Human Development Index (HDI)**: 
  * A composite index measuring average achievement in three basic dimensions of human development—a long and healthy life, knowledge and a decent standard of living. See Technical note 1 at http://hdr.undp.org/sites/default/files/hdr2018_technical_notes.pdf for details on how the HDI is calculated.	
  * HDRO calculations based on data from UNDESA (2017a), UNESCO Institute for Statistics (2018), United Nations Statistics Division (2018b), World Bank (2018b), Barro and Lee (2016) and IMF (2018).
* **Life expectancy at birth**: 
  * Number of years a newborn infant could expect to live if prevailing patterns of age-specific mortality rates at the time of birth stay the same throughout the infant’s life.
  * UNDESA (2017a). 
* **Expected years of schooling**: 
  * Number of years of schooling that a child of school entrance age can expect to receive if prevailing patterns of age-specific enrolment rates persist throughout the child’s life.	
  * UNESCO Institute for Statistics (2018), ICF Macro Demographic and Health Surveys, UNICEF Multiple Indicator Cluster Surveys and OECD (2017a).
* **Mean years of schooling**: 
  * Average number of years of education received by people ages 25 and older, converted from education attainment levels using official durations of each level.	
  * UNESCO Institute for Statistics (2018), Barro and Lee (2016), ICF Macro Demographic and Health Surveys, UNICEF Multiple Indicator Cluster Surveys and OECD (2017a).
* **Gross national income (GNI) per capita**: 
  * Aggregate income of an economy generated by its production and its ownership of factors of production, less the incomes paid for the use of factors of production owned by the rest of the world, converted to international dollars using PPP rates, divided by midyear population.
  * World Bank (2018b), IMF (2018) and United Nations Statistics Division (2018b).
* **GNI per capita rank minus HDI rank**: 
  * Difference in ranking by GNI per capita and by HDI value. A negative value means that the country is better ranked by GNI than by HDI value
  * Calculated based on data in columns 1 and 5.
* **HDI rank for 2016**: 
  * Ranking by HDI value for 2016, which was calculated using the same most recently revised data available in 2018 that were used to calculate HDI values for 2017.	
